# Summarizing Week-3 Day 3 class
## Classwork

- Week-3 Day 3 in a simple sentence summary was all about understanding the basics of solidity. The different data - types in solidity, how to declare variables in solidity, the different variable scopes in solidity,error handling interfaces and abstract contracts and many more!
-Now to the details,
-    The first thing I got from the class was that solidity is a typed language, and this means that every variable - that is declared must also come with its type. For example, if you define a variable a that stores a number. You must also declare that a is number like this 'uint8 a = 12'. uint meaning unsigned integer. There are two main types in solidity and they are Value and Reference. Individually, these types have different types under them.
- Next, I learnt about writing smart contracts in solidity and how a smart contract file can be broken down into different parts. The first being the licensing, then the pragma version, and then the body of code. For the body of the code where variables are defined, these variables have three different types which are:- state, local and global. state variables store permanent data for blockchain while local variables store temporary variables and global variables are automatic variables that come with solidity(e.g msg.sender). Just like in javascript, solidity also has constants but there is a twist, solidity has two data types known as:- constant and immutable. Constant has to be hardcoded but immutable can be defined later in constructor.
Then, I also learnt about error handling and there are three ways :- assert,require and revert. require must be done before the function calls so that gas can be refunded.
There is also inheritance in solidity like other object-oriented languages and it comes in form of interface and abstract constracts. Interfaces help two smart contracts to interact with each other without copying everything, you simply copy required functions and use it.. Abstract is also similar except interfaces can have no implementations but abstract contracts must have
Lastly, there are different types of visibility in solidity and they are public,private,internal, external and semicolons are very essential in solidity.